# Tiny Rust Embedded Virtual Machines (trevm)
This repository showcases small Rust embedded virtual machines, encapsuled and bolted on Ariel OS. Open source examples of code are given which you can run on a variety of Cortex-M and RISC-V boards (see below).

## WebAssembly

Currently, the only type of VM that has been tested with Ariel OS is WebAssembly. Currently, [Wasmtime](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime) is the only WebAssembly runtime that is supported. Notee: support for this is experimental and the implementation is subject to change.

### Setup & Requirements

Your system and toolchain should be set up for Ariel OS. To learn more about the OS check out the [Ariel OS repo](https://github.com/ariel-os/ariel-os) and follow the guide for [getting started](https://ariel-os.github.io/ariel-os/dev/docs/book/getting-started.html).

On top of the requirements for basic Ariel OS usage, to turn rust code into components the `wasm32v1-none` target should be installed for your toolchain using `rustup target add wawm32v1-none` and so should the [`wasm-tools`](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools) CLI utility. Ariel OS works on stable and so does the rust to wasm compilation workflow but we advocate the use of a (recent) nightly compiler for two reasons:
- Compiling the wasm payloads is a three step process. We provide a rust script that does those steps in sequence and running scripts requires nightly.
- Wasm binaries have by default a memory page size of 65536 bytes. It is possible to go below but support for this was only added in LLVM 21 which is only used by fairly recent nightly `rustc`. `nightly-09-01` is known to work and is the nightly version that was used when developing this.

### WebAssembly Binding Structure

The bindings can be found in [`src/ariel-os-bindings/src/wasm`](./src/ariel-os-bindings/src/wasm/). They are taylored for Wasmtime and will not work with another runtime. The bindings are partially auto-generated by the use of the [WebAssembly component model](FIXMELink). The WIT interfaces that are made available to wams components are defined in [`wit/deps/ariel`](./wit/deps/ariel/).

### Workflow

Examples are in the `examples/` directory. They can be run using the [`laze`](https://github.com/kaspar030/laze) build system. Capsules work by embarking their payload at compile time. Changing the payload requires to go through the following steps:
- Compiling some code to a wasm module
- Turning the wasm module into a wasm component
- Precompiling this component to make it usable by wasmtime in `no_std` contexts.
The `precompile_wasm.rs` script takes in a path to rust manifest (`Cargo.toml`) and outputs a precompiled component to make this process less time consuming.
The source code for the payload used in the examples in the [`payloads`](./payloads/) directory. After modifying the code in for example `payloads/async-bindings/src/lib.rs`, the corresponding example's payload can be changed by using the script in the following way
```sh
#  nightly is required to use -Z script
cargo +nightly -Z script precompile_wasm.rs --toolchain "+nightly-2025-09-01" --path payloads/async-bindings/Cargo.toml --config payloads/.cargo/config.toml -o examples/async-bindings/payload.cwasm
```

## Examples
- [Async Bindings for RNG, Timer, Log](https://github.com/ariel-os/trevm/tree/main/examples/async-bindings): This example shows how Ariel OS can asynchronously run wasm components that yield regularly and that call asynchronous host functions. *Recommended boards for this example*: nrf52840dk, rpi-pico2-w
- [UDP Bindings](https://github.com/ariel-os/trevm/tree/main/examples/udp-bindings): This example showcases how a wasm capsule can receive and send UDP packets by using the approriate functions. *Recommended boards for this example*: nrf52840dk, rpi-pico2-w, espressif-esp32-c6-devkitc-1
- [CoAP Server Bindings](https://github.com/ariel-os/trevm/tree/main/examples/coap-server-bindings): This example shows how to run a coap-server through a wasm capsule by deferring the processing of selects message to the wasm capsule. *Recommended boards for this example*: nrf52840dk, rpi-pico2-w, espressif-esp32-c6-devkitc-1
